LINK TO DIAGRAM
https://drive.google.com/file/d/1-Z7UheiD5YKJomLnPXxuzkzTHn5uQpYv/view?usp=sharing


ANSWERS TO QUESTION ASKED

What is a server?

A server is a device, a virtual device or computer program or
providing functionality for other programs or devices, called “clients”.
Technically, any computer can be used a server but the costs can
be really high(e.g constant power supply to aviod downtime) and
also the amount of resources the function of a server takes(e.g RAM, ROM), for
these reasons specialized computers are made and kept at data center where
all the resources needed are available at all times.


What is the role of the domain name?

The domain name in a raw context bridges the gap between human
and computers. Computer understand numbers(binary) but this
can be hard for humans who are much more comfortable with words.
So domain name are purely for humans for the need to remember the
website instead of numbers. This domain name is then converted to
numbers(IP Address) by the Domain Name System(DNS) for computers to
understand.


What type of DNS record www is in www.foobar.com?

www in www.foobar.com is a CNAME(canonical name) record.


What is the role of the web server?

The web server accepts http request sent from clients.
The main job of a web server is to display website content through
storing, processing and delivering webpages to users. Besides HTTP,
web servers also support SMTP (Simple Mail Transfer Protocol) and FTP
(File Transfer Protocol), used for email, file transfer and storage.
This content could be static web pages or dynamically created or it can
be generated at the time of the request (dynamic content) by another
program that communicates with the server software.


What is the role of the application server?

The application server provides business logic behind any application.
It often serves as the middle man between the web sever and the database
server. It accepts request from the webserver, collects the information
need from the datebase, returns it back to the webserver to inturn return
to the client.


What is the role of the database?

Its main role is to receive requests from client machines, search
for the required data, and pass back the results.


What is the server using to communicate with the computer of the user
requesting the website?

The server uses Hypertext Transfer Protocol(HTTP) to communicate with the client
and the client does the same.


ISSUES WITH THIS INFRASTRUCTURE

The single point of failure is located at the server. Why?. This is because
if the server experiences down time there no backup server to deliver services
to incoming clients. This is costly because the company loses money and the
user is left frustrated.

Also when maintainance is need to be done such such as deploying new code,
we have a big problem on our hand because the server will need to be restarted
and this may lead to loss of information for clients who are in session.

When there are many client try to access this server, the server might get
overwhelmed and stop operating at optimal speed, another disadvantage of
this infrastructure.
